That’s a funny game, uncle. What did you do then?A red pawn took a white pawn; this way. You see, Alice, the chessboard is
divided into sixty-four squares, red and white, and the white army tries
to win and the red army tries to win. It’s like a battle!With soldiers?Yes, here are the Kings and Queens they are fighting for. That’s the Red
Queen and here’s the White Queen.How funny they look!See the crowns on their heads, and look at their big feet.It’s a foot apiece, that’s what it is! Do they hump along like this?Here! You’re spoiling the game. I must keep them all in their right
squares.I want to be a queen!Here you are [he points to a small white pawn] here you are in your
little stiff skirt!How do you do, Alice!And now you are going to move here.Let me move myself.When you have traveled all along the board this way and haven’t been taken
by the enemy you may be a queen.Why do people always play with kings and queens? Mother has them in her
playing cards too. Look!Here’s the King of Hearts and here’s his wife; she’s the Queen of
Hearts—isn’t she cross-looking? wants to bite one’s head off.You’re playing against yourself, aren’t you?That’s one way of keeping in practice, Alice; I have friends in the
university who want to beat me.But if you play against yourself I should think you’d want to cheat!Does a nice little girl like you cheat when she plays against herself?Oh! I never do! I’d scold myself hard. I always pretend I’m two people
too. It’s lots of fun, isn’t it? Sometimes when I’m all alone I walk up to
the looking glass and talk to the other Alice. She’s so silly, that Alice;
she can’t do anything by herself. She just mocks me all the time. When I
laugh, she laughs, when I point my finger at her, she points her finger at
me, and when I stick my tongue out at her she sticks her tongue out at me!
Kitty has a twin too, haven’t you darling?I’ll have to write a book some day about Alice—Alice in wonderland,
“Child of the pure unclouded brow and dreaming eyes of wonder!” or, Alice
through the looking glass!Don’t you wish sometimes you could go into looking-glass house? See!There’s the room you can see through the glass; it’s just the same as our
living-room here, only the things go the other way. I can see all of
it—all but the bit just behind the fireplace. Oh! I do wish I could see
that bit! I want so much to know if they’ve a fire there. You never can
tell, you know, unless our fire smokes. Then smoke comes up in that room
too—but that may be just to make it look as if they had a fire—just to
pretend they had. The books are something like our books,[Pg 5] only the words
go the wrong way. Won’t there ever be any way of our getting through,
uncle?Do you think Kitty would find looking-glass milk digestible?It doesn’t sound awful good, does it; but I might leave her at home. She’s
been into an awful lot of mischief today. She found sister’s knitting and
chased the ball all over the garden where sister was playing croquet with
the neighbors. And I ran and ran after the naughty little thing until I
was all out of breath and so tired! I am tired.Take a nap. Yes, you have time before tea.We’re going to have mock turtle soup for supper! I heard mamma tell the
cook not to pepper it too much.What a funny little rabbit it is, nibbling all the time!There she is, let’s call her over.Do you think she’ll come?I’ll call softly, Alice!Hist, Alice.Alice!Hush—if she wakes and catches us—Alice, come through into looking-glass house!I—don’t—know—how—I—can—get—through. I’ve tried—before—but the
glass was hard—and I was afraid of cutting—my fingers—Why, it’s soft like gauze; it’s turning into a sort of mist; why, it’s
easy to get through! Why—why—I’m going through!Why, you’re the Red Queen!Of course I am! Where do you come from? And where are you going? Look up,
speak nicely, and don’t twiddle your fingers!I only wanted to see what the looking glass was like. Perhaps I’ve lost my
way.I don’t know what you mean by your way; all the ways about here belong to
me. Curtsey while you’re thinking what to say. It saves time.I’ll try it when I go home; the next time I’m a little late for dinner.It’s time for you to answer now; open your mouth a little wider when you
speak, and always say, “Your Majesty.” I suppose you don’t want to lose
your name?No, indeed.And yet I don’t know, only think how convenient it would be if you could
manage to go home without it! For instance, if the governess wanted to
call you to your lessons, she would call out “come here,” and there she
would have to leave off, because there wouldn’t be any name for her to
call, and of course you wouldn’t have to go, you know.That would never do, I’m sure; the governess would never think of excusing
me from lessons for that. If she couldn’t remember my name, she’d call me
“Miss,” as the servants do.Well, if she said “Miss,” and didn’t say anything more, of course you’d
miss your lessons. I dare say you can’t even read this book.It’s all in some language I don’t know. Why, it’s a looking-glass book, of
course! And if I hold it up to a glass, the words will all go the right
way again.It seems very pretty, but it’s rather hard to understand; somehow it
seems to fill my head with ideas—only I don’t exactly know what they are.I daresay you don’t know your geography either. Look at the map!It’s marked out just like a big chessboard. I wouldn’t mind being a pawn,
though of course I should like to be a Red Queen best.That’s easily managed. When you get to the eighth square you’ll be a
Queen. It’s a huge game of chess that’s being played—all over the world.
Come on, we’ve got to run. Faster, don’t try to talk.I can’t.Faster, faster.Are we nearly there?Nearly there! Why, we passed it ten minutes ago. Faster. You may rest a
little now.Why, I do believe we’re in the same place. Everything’s just as it was.Of course it is, what would you have it?Well, in our country you’d generally get to somewhere else—if you ran
very fast for a long time as we’ve been doing.A slow sort of country. Now here you see, it takes all the running you
can do, to keep in the same place. If you want to get somewhere else, you
must run at least twice as fast as that.I’d rather not try, please! I’m quite content to stay here—only I am so
hot and thirsty.I know what you’d like.Have a biscuit?While you’re refreshing yourself, I’ll just take the measurements.At the end of two yards I shall give you your directions—have another
biscuit?No thank you, one’s quite enough.Thirst quenched, I hope? At the end of three yards I shall repeat
them—for fear of your forgetting them. At the end of four, I shall say
good-bye. And at the end of five, I shall go! That Square belongs to
Humpty Dumpty and that Square to the Gryphon and Mock Turtle and that
Square to the Queen of Hearts. But you make no remark?I—I didn’t know I had to make one—just then.You should have said, “It’s extremely kind of you to tell me all this,”
however, we’ll suppose it said. Four! Good-bye! Five!Oh the Duchess! the Duchess! Oh! won’t she be savage if I’ve kept her
waiting!I’ve never seen a rabbit with a waistcoat and a watch! And a waistcoat
pocket! If you please, sir—Oh!I’m very glad I happened to be in the way.Bread-and-butter, bread-and-butter.Am I addressing the White Queen?Well, yes, if you call that a-dressing. It isn’t my notion of the thing,
at all.If your Majesty will only tell me the right way to begin, I’ll do it as
well as I can.But I don’t want it done at all. I’ve been a-dressing myself for the last
two hours.Every single thing’s crooked, and you’re all over pins; may I put your
shawl straight for you?I don’t know what’s the matter with it! It’s out of temper. I’ve pinned it
here, and I’ve pinned it there, but there’s no pleasing it.It can’t go straight, you know, if you pin it all on one side, and dear
me, what a state your hair is in!The brush has got entangled in it! And I lost the comb yesterday.You look better now! But really you should have a lady’s maid!I’m sure I’ll take you with pleasure. Two pence a week and jam every other day.I don’t want you to hire me—and I don’t care for jam.It’s very good jam.Well, I don’t want any today, at any rate.You couldn’t have it if you did want it. The rule is, jam tomorrow and
jam yesterday—but never jam today.It must come sometimes to “jam today.”No, it can’t, it’s jam every other day; today isn’t any other day, you
know.I don’t understand you, it’s dreadfully confusing!That’s the effect of living backwards, it always makes one a little giddy
at first—Living backwards! I never heard of such a thing!But there’s one great advantage in it—that one’s memory works both ways.I’m sure mine only works one way. I can’t remember things before they
happen.It’s a poor sort of memory that only works backwards.What sort of things do you remember best?Oh, things that happened the week after next. For instance now:There’s the King’s messenger—he’s in prison being punished; and the trial
doesn’t even begin till next Wednesday; and of course the crime comes last
of all.Suppose he never commits the crime?That would be all the better, wouldn’t it?Of course it would be all the better, but it wouldn’t be all the better
his being punished.You’re wrong there, at any rate; were you ever punished?Only for faults.And you were all the better for it, I know!Yes, but then I had done the things I was punished for; that makes all
the difference.But if you hadn’t done them that would have been better still; better and
better and better!There’s a mistake somewhere—Oh, Oh, Oh! My finger’s bleeding. Oh, Oh, Oh!What is the matter? Have you pricked your finger?I haven’t pricked it yet—but I soon shall—Oh, Oh, Oh!When do you expect to do it?When I fasten my shawl again; the brooch will come undone directly. Oh, Oh!Take care! you’re holding it all crooked!That accounts for the bleeding, you see; now you understand the way things
happen here.But why don’t you scream now?Why, I’ve done all the screaming already. What would be the good of having
it all over again? Oh! it’s time to run if you want to stay in the same
place! Come on!No, no! Not so fast! I’m getting dizzy!!Faster, faster!Everything’s black before my eyes!Oh! my head! Where am I? Oh dear, Oh dear![Pg 22] I’ve never been smaller than any
table before! I’ve always been able to reach the knobs! What a curious feeling. Oh! I’m shrinking. It’s
the fan—the gloves!Oh! saved in time! But I never—never—Oh! my fan and gloves! Where are my—Oh! Mr. Rabbit—please help me out—I want to go home—I want to go home—Oh! the Duchess! Oh! my fur and whiskers! She’ll get me executed, as sure
as ferrets are ferrets! Oh! you have them!I’m sorry—you dropped them, you know—She’ll chop off your head!If you please sir—where am I?—won’t you please—tell me how to get
out—I want to get out—Oh! my ears and whiskers, how late it’s getting.It’s a rabbit-hole—I’m small enough to fit it too! If I shrink any more
it might end in my going out altogether like a candle. I wonder what I
would be like then! What does the flame of a candle look like after the
candle is blown out? I’ve never seen such a thing!Don’t stand chattering to yourself like that, but tell me your name and
your business.My name is Alice, but—It’s a stupid name enough, what does it mean?Must a name mean something?Of course it must; my name means the shape I am—and a good, handsome
shape it is, too. With a name like yours, you might be any shape, almost.You’re Humpty Dumpty! Just like an egg.It’s very provoking, to be called an egg—very.I said you looked like an egg, Sir, and some eggs are very pretty, you
know.Some people have no more sense than a baby.Why do you sit here all alone?Why, because there’s nobody with me. Did you think I didn’t know the
answer to that? Ask another.Don’t you think you’d be safer down on the ground? That wall’s so very
narrow.What tremendously easy riddles you ask! Of course I don’t think so. Take a
good look at me! I’m one that has spoken to a king, I am; to show you I’m
not proud, you may shake hands with me!However, this conversation is going on a little too fast; let’s go back to
the last remark but one.I’m afraid I can’t remember it.In that case we start fresh, and it’s my turn to choose a subject.You talk about it just as if it were a game.So here’s a question for you. How old did you say you were?Seven years and six months.Wrong! You never said a word about it. Now if you’d asked my advice, I’d
have said, “Leave off at seven—but—”I never ask advice about growing.Too proud?What a beautiful belt you’ve got on. At least, a beautiful cravat, I
should have said—no, a belt, I mean—I beg your pardon. If only I knew
which was neck and which was waist.It is a—most—provoking—thing, when a person doesn’t know a cravat
from a belt.I know it’s very ignorant of me.It’s a cravat, child, and a beautiful one, as you say. There’s glory for
you.I don’t know what you mean by “glory.”When I use a word, it means just what I choose it to mean—neither more
nor less.The question is, whether you can make words mean different things.The question is, which is to be master—that’s all. Impenetrability!
That’s what I say!Would you tell me, please, what that means?I meant by “impenetrability” that we’ve had enough of that subject, and it
would be just as well if you’d mention what you mean to do next, as I
suppose you don’t mean to stop here all the rest of your life.That’s a great deal to make one word mean.When I make a word do a lot of work like that I always pay it extra.Oh!Ah, you should see ’em come round me of a Saturday night, for to get their
wages, you know. That’s all—Good-bye.Good-bye till we meet again.I shouldn’t know you again, if we did meet, you’re so exactly like other
people.The face is what one goes by, generally.That’s just what I complain of. Your face is the same as everybody
has—the two eyes—so—nose in the middle, mouth under. It’s always the
same. Now if you had the two eyes on the same side of the nose, for
instance—or the mouth at the top—that would be some help.It wouldn’t look nice.Wait till you’ve tried! Good-bye.Oh! I forgot to ask him how to—It isn’t marked poison.This is good! Tastes like cherry tart, custard, pineapple, roast turkey,
toffy and hot buttered toast—all together. Oh! Oh! I’m letting out like a
telescope.But the lake is rising too. Oh! Oh! it’s deep! I’m drowning. Help, help,
I’m drowning, I’m drowning in my tears!Hjckrrh. Hjckrrh!Hjckrrh. Hjckrrh. Hjckrrh.Drop your tears into the sea with his.He sobs as if he had a bone in his throat. He sighs as if his heart would
break. What is his sorrow?Oh, Gryphon, it’s terrible!It’s all his fancy that. Mock Turtle hasn’t got no sorrow. This here young
lady, she wants for to know your history, she do.I’ll tell it her. Sit down both of you, and don’t speak a word till I’ve
finished.I don’t see how you can ever finish, if you don’t begin.Once, I was a real Turtle.When we were little, we went to school in the sea. The master was an old
Turtle—we used to call him tortoise—Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn’t one?We called him Tortoise because he taught us; really you are very dull.You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple question.
Drive on, old fellow! Don’t be all day about it!Yes, we went to school in the sea, tho’ you mayn’t believe it—I never said I didn’t.You did.Hold your tongue!We had the best of educations—in fact, we went to school every day.I’ve been to a day school too; you needn’t be so proud as all that.With extras?Yes, we learned French and music.And washing?Certainly not!Ah! Then yours wasn’t a really good school. Now at ours they had at the
end of the bill, French, music, and washing—extra.You couldn’t have wanted it much; living at the bottom of the sea.I couldn’t afford to learn it, I only took the regular course.What was that?Reeling and writhing, of course, to begin with, and then the different
branches of Arithmetic—Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.I never heard of Uglification. What is it?Never heard of uglifying! You know what to beautify is, I suppose?Yes, it means—to—make—anything—prettier.Well then, if you don’t know what to uglify is, you are a simpleton.What else had you to learn?Well, there was Mystery; Mystery, ancient and modern, with Seaography,
then Drawling—the Drawling-master was an old conger eel, that used to
come once a week; what he taught us was Drawling, Stretching, and
Fainting in Coils.What was that like?Well, I can’t show it you, myself. I’m too stiff. And the Gryphon never learned it.Hadn’t time; I went to the Classical master, though. He was an old crab, he was.I never went to him; he taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.So he did, so he did.And how many hours a day did you do lessons?Ten hours the first day, nine the next, and so on.What a curious plan!That’s the reason they’re called lessons, because they lessen from day to day.Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday?Of course it was.And how did you manage on the twelfth?That’s enough about lessons, tell her something about the games now.Same as if he had a bone in his throat.You may not have lived much under the sea—I haven’t.And perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster.I once tasted—no, never!So you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille is.No, indeed. What sort of a dance is it?Why, you first form into a line along the seashore.Two lines; seals, turtles, salmon, and so on; then, when you’ve cleared
all the jellyfish out of the way—That generally takes some time.You advance twice—Each with a lobster as a partner.Of course, advance twice, set to partners.Change lobsters, and retire in same order.Then you know, you throw the—The lobsters!As far out to sea as you can—Swim after them!Turn a somersault in the sea.Change lobsters again!Back to land again, and—that’s all the first figure.It must be a very pretty dance.Would you like to see a little of it?Very much indeed.Come, let’s try the first figure. We can do it without lobsters, you know;
which shall sing?Oh, you sing, I’ve forgotten the words.Thank you; it’s a very interesting dance to watch, and I do so like that
curious song about the whiting.Oh, as to the whiting, they—you’ve seen them, of course?Yes, I’ve often seen them at din—I don’t know where Din may be, but if you’ve seen them so often, of course
you know what they’re like.I believe so, they have their tails in their mouths—and they’re all over crumbs.You’re wrong about the crumbs, crumbs would all wash off in the sea. But
they have their tails in their mouths; and the reason is—Tell her about the reason and all that.The reason is, that they would go with the lobsters to the dance. So
they got thrown out to sea. So they had to fall a long way. So they got
their tails fast in their mouths. So they couldn’t get them out again.
That’s all.Thank you, it’s very interesting. I never knew so much about a whiting
before.I can tell you more than that, if you like. Do you know why it’s called a whiting?I never thought about it. Why?It does the boots and shoes.Does the boots and shoes!Why, what are your shoes done with? I mean, what makes them so shiny?They’re done with blacking, I believe.Boots and shoes under the sea, are done with whiting. Now you know.And what are they made of?Soles and eels, of course; any shrimp could have told you that.If I’d been the whiting, I’d have said to the porpoise, “Keep back,
please; we don’t want you with us.”They were obliged to have him with them, no wise fish would go anywhere
without a porpoise.Wouldn’t it really?Of course not; why if a fish came to me and told me he was going a
journey, I should say, “With what porpoise?”Don’t you mean purpose?I mean what I say.Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille? Or would you like
the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?Oh, a song please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind.Um! No accounting for tastes! Sing her “Turtle Soup,” will you, old
fellow?Check!They won’t let her stay in our square.The Queen is coming this way.She’ll chop our heads off. Come on, come on, let’s fly!No room! No room!There’s plenty of room!I don’t know who you are.I am the March Hare, that’s the Hatter, and this is the Dormouse. Have some wine?I don’t see any wine.There isn’t any.Then it wasn’t very civil of you to offer it.It wasn’t very civil of you to sit down without being invited.I didn’t know it was your table; it’s laid for a great many more than three.Your hair wants cutting.You should learn not to make personal remarks; it’s very rude.Why is a raven like a writing-desk?Come, we shall have some fun now! I’m glad you’ve begun asking riddles—I
believe I can guess that.So you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?Exactly so.Then you should say what you mean.I do; at least—at least I mean what I say—that’s the same thing, you
know.Not the same thing a bit! Why, you might just as well say that “I see what
I eat” is the same thing as, “I eat what I see!”You might just as well say that “I like what I get,” is the same thing as
“I get what I like.”You might just as well say that “I breathe when I sleep” is the same thing
as “I sleep when I breathe.”It is the same thing with you.[Pg 50]What day of the month is it?The fourth.Two days wrong. I told you butter wouldn’t suit the works!It was the best butter.Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well; you shouldn’t have put it
in with the bread-knife—It was the best butter, you know.What a funny watch! It tells the day of the month, and doesn’t tell what
o’clock it is.Why should it? Does your watch tell you what year it is?Of course not, but that’s because it stays the same year for such a long
time together.Which is just the case with mine.I don’t quite understand you. What you said had no sort of meaning in it
and yet it was certainly English.The Dormouse is asleep again.Of course, of course, just what I was going to remark myself.Have you guessed the riddle yet?No, I give it up, what’s the answer?I haven’t the slightest idea.Nor I.I think you might do something better with the time, than wasting it in
asking riddles that have no answers.If you knew Time as well as I do, you wouldn’t talk about wasting it.
It’s him.I don’t know what you mean.Of course you don’t. I dare say you never even spoke to Time.Perhaps not, but I know I have to beat time when I learn music.Ah, that accounts for it. He won’t stand beating. Now, if you only kept on
good terms with him, he’d do almost anything you liked with the clock. For
instance, suppose it were nine o’clock in the morning, just time to begin
lessons. You’d only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling! Half past one, time for dinner.I only wish it was.That would be grand, certainly, but then—I shouldn’t be hungry for it,
you know.Not at first, perhaps, but you could keep it to half past one as long as
you liked.Is that the way you manage?Not I, we quarreled last March—just before he went mad, you know. It
was at the great concert given by the Queen of Hearts and I had to sing.You know the song, perhaps.I’ve heard something like it.Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle—Well, I’d hardly finished the first verse when the Queen bawled out, “He’s
murdering the time! Off with his head!”How dreadfully savage!And ever since that, he won’t do a thing I ask! It’s always six o’clock now.Is that the reason so many tea things are put out here?Yes, that’s it; it’s always tea time, and we’ve no time to wash the things between whiles.Then you keep moving round, I suppose?Exactly so, as the things get used up.But when you come to the beginning again?Suppose we change the subject. I vote the young lady tells us a story.I’m afraid I don’t know one.Then the Dormouse shall. Wake up Dormouse.I wasn’t asleep, I heard every word you fellows were saying.Tell us a story.Yes, please do!And be quick about it, or you’ll be asleep again before it’s done.Once upon a time there were three little sisters, and their[Pg 56] names were
Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie and they lived at the bottom of a well—What did they live on?They lived on treacle.They couldn’t have done that, you know, they’d have been ill.So they were, very ill.But why did they live at the bottom of a well?Take some more tea.I’ve had nothing yet, so I can’t take more.You mean, you can’t take less; it’s very easy to take more than nothing.Nobody asked your opinion.Who’s making personal remarks now?Why did they live at the bottom of a well?It was a treacle-well.There’s no such thing!Sh! Sh!If you can’t be civil, you’d better finish the story for yourself.No, please go on. I won’t interrupt you again. I dare say there may be one.One, indeed! And so these three little sisters—they were learning to draw, you know—What did they draw?Treacle.I want a clean cup. Let’s all move one place on.I’m worse off than I was before. You’ve upset the milk jug into your plate.It wasn’t very civil of you to sit down without being invited.Where did they draw the treacle from?You can draw water out of a water well, so I should think you could draw
treacle out of a treacle well—eh, stupid?But they were in the well.Of course they were—well in. They were learning to draw, and they drew
all manner of things—everything that begins with an M—Why with an M?Why not?—that begins with an M, such as mousetraps and the moon and memory and
muchness—you know you say things are “much of a muchness”—did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?Did you?Really now you ask me, I don’t think—Then you shouldn’t talk.No!You are very rude. It’s the stupidest tea party I ever was at in all my life—No room! no room!For the Duchess. An invitation from the Queen to play croquet.From the Queen. An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet.No room! No room! No room!She’s at it again.It’s perfectly disgusting.Let’s move on.There’s no sort of use in knocking, and that for two reasons: first,
because I’m on the same side of the door as you are; secondly, because
they’re making such a noise inside, no one could possibly hear you.Please then, how am I to get in?There might be some sense in your knocking if we had the door between us.
For instance, if you were inside, you might knock, and I could let you
out, you know.How am I to get in?I shall sit here, till tomorrow.Or next day, maybe.How am I to get in?Are you to get in at all? That’s the first question, you know.It’s really dreadful the way all you creatures argue. It’s enough to drive one crazy.I shall sit here, on and off, for days and days.But what am I to do?Anything you like.Where’s the servant whose business it is to answer the door?Which door?This door, of course!To answer the door? What’s it been asking for?I don’t know what you mean.I speaks English, doesn’t I? Or are you deaf? What did it ask you?Nothing! I’ve been knocking at it.Shouldn’t do that—shouldn’t do that, vexes it, you know.You let it alone, and it’ll let you alone, you know.Oh, there’s no use talking to you—If everybody minded her own business—It’s pepper.Of course, my cook puts it in the soup.There’s certainly too much pepper in the soup.Sneeze then and get rid of it!Oh dear!What a cook to have!Oh! please mind what you’re doing!Oh! there goes his precious nose!If everybody minded her own business, the world would go round a deal
faster than it does.Which would not be an advantage. Just think what work it would make with
the day and night! You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round
on its axis—Talking of axes, chop off her head!Oh, what’s that?Cat, of course.Why does it grin like that?It’s a Cheshire cat! and that’s why. [To baby.] Pig!I didn’t know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn’t know
that cats could grin.They all can and most of ’em do.I don’t know of any that do.You don’t know much and that’s a fact. Here, you may nurse it a bit, if you like!I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen.If I don’t take this child away with me, they’re sure to kill it in a day
or two. Cheshire Puss, would you tell me please, which way I ought to walk from here?That depends a good deal on where you want to get to.I don’t much care where—Then it doesn’t matter which way you walk.So long as I get somewhere.Oh, you’re sure to do that, if you only walk long enough.Please, will you tell me what sort of people live about here?All mad people.But I don’t want to go among mad people.Oh, you can’t help that; we’re all mad here. I’m mad. He’s mad. He’s
dreaming now, and what do you think he’s dreaming about?Nobody could guess that.Why, about you! And if he left off dreaming about you, where do you
suppose you’d be?Where I am now, of course.Not you. You’d be nowhere. Why, you’re only a sort of thing in his dream;
and you’re mad too.How do you know I’m mad?You must be, or you wouldn’t have come here.How do you know that you’re mad?To begin with, a dog’s not mad. You grant that?I suppose so.Well then, you see a dog growls when it’s angry, and wags its[Pg 72] tail when
it’s pleased. Now I growl when I’m pleased, and wag my tail when I’m
angry. Therefore I’m mad.I call it purring, not growling.Call it what you like. Do you play croquet with the Queen today?I should like it very much, but I haven’t been invited yet.You’ll see me there.Oh, dear, it’s heavy and so ugly. Don’t grunt—Oh—Oh—it’s a—pig. Please
Mr. Footman take it!By-the-bye, what became of the baby?It turned into a pig.I thought it would.Did you say pig, or fig?I said pig; and I wish you wouldn’t keep appearing and vanishing so
suddenly; you make one quite giddy.All right. [It vanishes slowly.]Tweedle—dee.Dum!If you think we’re waxworks, you ought to pay.Contrariwise, if you think we’re alive, you ought to speak.The first thing in a visit is to say “How d’ye do?” and shake hands!Would you tell me which road leads out of—What shall I repeat to her?The “Walrus and the Carpenter” is the longest.If it’s very long, would you please tell me first which road—Do you see that?It’s only a rattle—I knew it was! It’s spoilt of course. My nice new rattle!You agree to have a battle?I suppose so. Let’s fight till dinner.I wonder what is going to happen next.Who is this?Idiot! What’s your name, child?My name is Alice, so please your Majesty.Off with her head! Off—Nonsense!Consider, my dear, she is only a child.Can you play croquet?Yes.Come on then. Get to your places. Where are the mallets?Here.Off with his head!What fun!What is the fun?Why she; it’s all her fancy, that. They never execute anyone.What does one do?Get to your places!Where are the Chess Queens?Under sentence of execution.What for?Did you say, “what a pity”?No, I didn’t. I don’t think it’s at all a pity. I said, “What for?”They boxed the Queen’s ears.Oh, hush! The Queen will hear you! You see they came rather late and the
Queen said—Oh dear, the Queen hears me—How can you go on thinking so quietly, with your head downwards?What does it matter where my body happens to be? My mind goes on working
just the same. The fact of it is, the more head downwards I am, the more I
keep on inventing new things.Did you happen to meet any soldiers, my dear, as you came through the wood?Yes, I did; several thousand I should think.Four thousand, two hundred and seven, that’s the exact number. They
couldn’t send all the horses, you know, because two of them are wanted in
the game. And I haven’t sent the two messengers, either.What’s the war about?The red Chess King has the whole army against us but he can’t kill a man
who has thirteen hearts.Just look along the road and tell me if you can see either of my messengers.I see nobody on the road.I only wish I had such eyes; to be able to see Nobody! And at that
distance too! Why, it’s as much as I can do to see real people, by this light.I see somebody now! But he’s coming very slowly—and what curious
attitudes he goes into—skipping up and down, and wriggling like an eel.Not at all, those are Anglo-Saxon attitudes. He only does them when he’s
happy. I must have two messengers, you know—to come and go. One to come and one to go.I beg your pardon?It isn’t respectable to beg.I only meant that I didn’t understand. Why one to come and one to go?Don’t I tell you? I must have two—to fetch and carry. One to fetch, and
one to carry.You alarm me! I feel faint—give me a ham sandwich. Another sandwich!There’s nothing but hay left now.Hay, then. There’s nothing like eating hay when you’re faint.I should think throwing cold water over you would be better.I didn’t say there was nothing better; I said there was nothing like it.Who did you pass on the road?Nobody.Quite right; this young lady saw him too. So of course Nobody walks slower than you.I do my best; I’m sure nobody walks much faster than I do.He can’t do that; or else he’d have been here first. However, now you’ve
got your breath, you may tell us what’s happened in the town.I’ll whisper it.They’re at it again!Do you call that a whisper? If you do such a thing again, I’ll have you
buttered. It went through and through my head like an earthquake. Give me details, quick!You can’t think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!Oh!You’re thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to
talk. I can’t tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall remember it in a bit.Perhaps it hasn’t one.Tut, tut, child! Everything’s got a moral, if only you can find it.The game’s going on rather better now.’Tis so, and the moral of that is—“Oh, ’tis love, ’tis love, that makes
the world go round!”Somebody said, that it’s done by everybody minding their own business.Ah, well! It means much the same thing, and the moral of that is—“Take
care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of themselves.”How fond you are of finding morals in things.I daresay you’re wondering why I don’t put my arm round your waist. The
reason is, that I’m doubtful about the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the experiment?He might bite.Very true; flamingoes and mustard both bite. And the moral of that
is—“Birds of a feather flock together.”Only mustard isn’t a bird.Right, as usual; what a clear way you have of putting things.It’s a mineral, I think.Of course it is; there’s a large mustard mine near here. And the moral of
that is—“The more there is of mine, the less there is of yours.”Oh! I know, it’s a vegetable. It doesn’t look like one, but it is.I quite agree with you, and the moral of that is—“Be what you would seem
to be;” or, if you’d like it put more simply, “Never imagine yourself not
to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or
might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have
appeared to them to be otherwise.”I think I should understand that better if I had it written down, but I
can’t quite follow it as you say it.That’s nothing to what I could say if I chose.Pray don’t trouble yourself to say it any longer than that.Oh, don’t talk about trouble; I make you a present of everything I’ve said as yet.Uhm!Thinking again?I’ve got a right to think.Just about as much right as pigs have to fly, and the moral—A fine day, your Majesty.Now, I give you fair warning, either you or your head must be off, and
that in about half no time. Take your choice!Let’s go on with the game.How are you getting on?It’s no use speaking to you till your ears have come. I don’t think they
play at all fairly and they all quarrel so and they don’t seem to have any
rules in particular. And you’ve no idea how confusing it is with all the
things alive; there’s the arch I’ve got to go through next walking about
at the other end of the ground—and I should have croqueted the Queen’s
hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it saw mine coming.How do you like the Queen?Not at all; she’s so extremely——likely to win,that it’s hardly worth while finishing the game.Who are you talking to?It’s a friend of mine—a Cheshire Cat—allow me to introduce it.I don’t like the look of it at all; however, it may kiss my hand if it likes.I’d rather not.Don’t be impertinent and don’t look at me like that.A cat may look at a king. I’ve read that in some book, but I don’t
remember where.Well, it must be removed. My dear! I wish you would have this cat removed.Off with his head!But you can’t cut off a head unless there’s a body to cut it off from.Anything that has a head can be beheaded.If something isn’t done about it in less than no time, I’ll have everybody
executed, all round.It belongs to the Duchess; you’d better ask her about it.It’s a lie!You’d better ask me. Do it if you can.Cut it off!It’s gone.It’s gone! It’s gone! Where, where, where—Cut it off. Cut them all off!No, no, no!Save me, save me!Take a tart!Cut hers off! Cut hers off!Cut hers off, cut hers off, cut—Who are you?I—I hardly know, sir, just at present. The Queen frightened me so and
I’ve had an awfully funny fall down a tunnel or a sort of well. At least I
know who I was when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been
changed several times since then.What do you mean by that? Explain yourself.I can’t explain myself, I’m afraid, Sir, because I’m not myself, you see.
Being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.You! Who are you?I think you ought to tell me who you are, first.Why?Come back. I’ve something important to say.Keep your temper.Is that all?No.So you think you’re changed, do you?I’m afraid I am, Sir; I don’t keep the same size.What size do you want to be?I don’t know. At least I’ve never been so small as a caterpillar.It is a very good height indeed.But I’m not used to it; I wish you wouldn’t all be so easily offended.You’ll get used to it in time.Are you too big or am I too small?One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you grow shorter.One side of what? The other side of what?Of the mushroom.Look out now, Five. Don’t go splashing paint over me like that.I couldn’t help it. Seven jogged my elbow.That’s right, Five, always lay the blame on others.You’d better not talk. I heard the Queen say only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded.What for?That’s none of your business, Two.Yes, it is his business, and I’ll tell him. It was for bringing the cook tulip roots instead of onions.Well, of all the unjust things—Could you please tell me what side to eat?I don’t know anything about it.You ought to have been red, we put you in by mistake, and if the Queen was
to find it out we should all have our heads cut off.What’s that?The White Chess Queen.Don’t let her see what we are doing.She’ll tell on us.Run out and stop her from coming here.No, no, the other way.But she’s off there!You can only meet her by walking the other way.Oh! what nonsense.Go the other way!She’s running away from me.Oh, there you are! Why, I’m just the size I was when I saw you last.Of course you are, and who are these? I can’t tell them by their backs.Turn over. Ah! I thought so! Get up! What have you been doing here?May it please your Majesty, we were trying—I see! Begone, or I’ll send the horses after you, and tell the Queen of Hearts.Ridiculous!Isn’t this the Eighth Square?You can’t be a Queen, you know, till you’ve passed the proper examination.The sooner we begin it, the better.Please, would you tell me—Speak when you’re spoken to.But if everybody obeyed that rule, and if you only spoke when you were
spoken to, and the other person always waited for you to begin, you see
nobody would ever say anything, so that—Preposterous.I only said “if.”She says she only said “if.”But she said a great deal more than that. Ah, yes, so much more than that.So you did, you know; always speak the truth—think before you speak—and
write it down afterwards.I’m sure I didn’t mean—That’s just what I complained of. You should have meant! What do you
suppose is the use of a child without any meaning? Even a joke should have
some meaning—and a child’s more important than a joke, I hope. You
couldn’t deny that, even if you tried with both hands.I don’t deny things with my hands.Nobody said you did. I said you couldn’t if you tried.She’s in that state of mind, that she wants to deny something—only she
doesn’t know what to deny!A nasty, vicious temper. I invite you to Alice’s dinner party this afternoon.And I invite you.I didn’t know I was to have a party at all; but if there is to be one, I
think I ought to invite the guests.We gave you the opportunity of doing it, but I dare say you’ve not had
many lessons in manners yet.Manners are not taught in lessons; lessons teach you to do sums, and things of that sort.Can you do addition? What’s one and one and one and one and one and one
and one and one and one and one?I don’t know. I lost count.She can’t do addition; can you do subtraction? Take nine from eight.Nine from eight I can’t, you know, but—She can’t do subtraction. Can you do division? Divide a loaf by a
knife—what’s the answer to that?I suppose—Bread and butter, of course. Try another subtraction sum. Take a bone from a dog; what remains?The bone wouldn’t remain, of course, if I took it—and the dog wouldn’t
remain; it would come to bite me—and I’m sure I shouldn’t remain.Then you think nothing would remain?I think that’s the answer.Wrong as usual; the dog’s temper would remain.But I don’t see how—Why, look here; the dog would lose its temper, wouldn’t it?Perhaps it would.Then if the dog went away, its temper would remain!They might go different ways! What dreadful nonsense we are talking.She can’t do sums a bit!Can you do sums?I can do addition, if you give me time—but I can’t do subtraction under
any circumstances.Of course you know your A, B, C?To be sure I do.So do I; we’ll often say it over together, dear. And I’ll tell you a
secret—I can read words of one letter. Isn’t that grand? However, don’t
be discouraged. You’ll come to it in time.Can you answer useful questions? How is bread made?I know that! You take some flour—Where do you pick the flower? In a garden or in the hedges?Well, it isn’t picked at all. It’s ground—How many acres of ground? You mustn’t leave out so many things.Fan her head! She’ll be feverish after so much thinking.Please—please—She’s all right again now. Do you know languages? What’s the French for fiddle-de-dee?Fiddle-de-dee’s not English.Who ever said it was?If you tell me what language fiddle-de-dee is, I’ll tell you the French for it!Queens never make bargains!I wish Queens never asked questions!Don’t let us quarrel; what is the cause of lightning?The cause of lightning is the thunder—no, no! I meant the other way.It’s too late to correct it; when you’ve once said a thing, that fixes it,
and you must take the consequences.We had such a thunderstorm next Tuesday, you can’t think.She never could, you know.Part of the roof came off, and ever so much thunder got in—and it went
rolling round the room in great lumps—and knocking over the tables and
things—till I was so frightened, I couldn’t remember my own name!I never should try to remember my name in the middle of an accident.
Where would be the use of it?You must excuse her. She means well, but she can’t help saying foolish
things, as a general rule. She never was really well brought up, but it’s
amazing how good tempered she is! Pat her on the head, and see how pleased
she’ll be! A little kindness and putting her hair in papers would do
wonders with her.I am so sleepy!She’s tired, poor thing; smooth her hair—lend her your night cap—and
sing her a soothing lullaby.I haven’t got a night cap with me, and I don’t know any soothing lullabies.I must do it myself, then.And now you know the words.Just sing it through to me. I’m getting sleepy too.What am I to do? Take care of two Queens asleep at once? Do wake up, you heavy things!The trial’s beginning!What trial is it?Who stole the tarts.I ate a tart.You’ve got to be tried.I don’t want to be tried.You’ve got to be tried.I won’t be tried—I won’t-I won’t!Silence in the court!What are they doing? They can’t have anything to put down yet, before the
trial’s begun.They’re putting down their names for fear they should forget them before
the end of the trial.Stupid things!Silence in the court!Stupid things!How do you spell stupid?A nice muddle their slates will be in before the trial’s over.There’s a pencil squeaking. Cut it down!Squeaking—Herald, read the accusation!Consider your verdict!Not yet, not yet; there’s a great deal to come before that.Call the first witness.First witness!I beg your pardon, your Majesty, for bringing these in, but I hadn’t quite
finished my tea when I was sent for.You ought to have finished; when did you begin?[Pg 120]Fourteenth of March, I think it was.Fifteenth.Sixteenth.Write that down.Fourteen, fifteen, sixteen—forty-five. Reduce that to shillings—Take off your hat.It isn’t mine.Stolen!Stolen!I keep them to sell. I’ve none of my own. I’m a hatter.Give your evidence and don’t be nervous, or I’ll have you executed on the spot.I’m a poor man, your Majesty, and I hadn’t but just begun my tea—not
above a week or so—and what with the bread and butter getting so
thin—and the twinkling of the tea—The twinkling of what?It began with the tea.Of course twinkling begins with a T. Do you take me for a dunce? Go on!I’m a poor man and most things twinkled after that—only the March Hare said—I didn’t!You did.I deny it.He denies it; leave out that part.But what did the Dormouse say?That I can’t remember.You must remember or I’ll have you executed.[Pg 123]I’m a poor man, your Majesty.If that’s all you know about it you may stand down.I can’t go no lower; I’m on the floor as it is.Then you may sit down.I’d rather finish my tea.You may go.And just take his head off outside.Call the next witness!Next witness!Give your evidence!Shan’t!Your Majesty must cross-examine this witness.Well, if I must, I must. What does your cook say tarts are made of?Pepper.Treacle!Collar the Dormouse! Behead the Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court!
Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his whiskers!The Duchess!She’s gone—she’s gone.Never mind!Really, my dear, you must cross-examine the next witness. It quite makes
my forehead ache! Call the next witness!Alice!Here!What do you know about this business?Nothing whatever.That’s very important.Unimportant, your Majesty means, of course.Unimportant, of course I meant. Important—unimportant—unimportant—important. Consider your verdict!There’s more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty; this paper has just been picked up.What’s in it?[Pg 127]I haven’t opened it yet, but it seems to be a letter, written by the
prisoner to—to somebody.It must have been that unless it was written to nobody, which isn’t usual, you know.Who is it directed to?It isn’t directed at all; in fact, there’s nothing written on the outside.It isn’t a letter at all; it’s a set of verses.Are they in the prisoner’s handwriting?No, they’re not, and that’s the queerest thing about it.He must have imitated somebody else’s hand!Please, your Majesty, I didn’t write it and they can’t prove I did;
there’s no name signed at the end.If you didn’t sign it that only makes the matter worse. You must have
meant some mischief, or else you’d have signed your name like an honest man.That proves his guilt.It proves nothing of the sort! Why, you don’t even know what they’re about.Read them!Where shall I begin, please your Majesty?Begin at the beginning and go on till you come to the end, then stop.That’s the most important piece of evidence we’ve heard yet; so now let
the jury—If anyone of them can explain it, I’ll give him sixpence. I don’t believe
there’s an atom of meaning in it.She doesn’t believe there’s an atom of meaning in it.If there’s no meaning in it, that saves a world of trouble, you know, as
we needn’t try to find any. And yet I don’t know.I seem to see some meaning after all. “Said I could not swim.” You can’t
swim, can you?Do I look like it?All right, so far; “We know it to be true,” that’s the jury, of course; “I
gave her one, they gave him two” why that must be what he did with the
tarts, you know—But it goes on “they all returned from him to you.”Why, there they are! Nothing can be clearer than that. Then again, “before
she had this fit,” you never had fits, my dear, I think?Never!Then the words don’t fit you.It’s a pun!Let the jury consider their verdict.No, no! Sentence first—verdict afterwards.Stuff and nonsense!Hold your tongue!I won’t!Off with her head!Who cares for you?Cut it off!You’re nothing but a pack of cards!Wake up, Alice, it is time for tea.Why——it was a dream!